- [Instructor] Now let us modify the same controller
that we used before and use another annotation
called @RestController.
So let's head back with the IDE
and instead of saying @Controller on line 14
let's put up @RestController here.
And let's also get rid of lines 22 to 30
because that is not what we want as a part of
the RESTful service method that we want to write.
So what is RestController?
This is an annotation which will combine both
the @Controller annotation at line 15
and @Response annotation on line 23.
So RestController was introduced by Spring
so that whatever classes that you write
annotated with this one will signify
that it is a RESTful service class.
It gives you the full power
to use all features of RESTful services.
This was done so that you do not have to
annotate every method with this @response annotation.
The next thing that we're going to do here is
we're going to use ResponseEntity.
Now ResponseEntity is an object which is used
to send information back to the client.
Why is this required?
Why can't we just return a list of products?
We can but let's understand why.
Let's say you have an incoming request,
and that request is for a RESTful service URL,
which is trying to get a product with ID number 25.
That ID 25 is passed in the form of a path variable.
We are going to look at path variables
in the subsequent demos, do not worry about that now.
Just understand that right now,
we're just calling this for product number 25.
The moment the request reached the service,
or the server side,
unfortunately that product number 25 did not exist.
Now, the entire response can come back to the client
in this fashion.
You can have the status of the entire request as 200
stating that okay the request got completed successfully
but the body turned out to be empty
because that product never existed on the server side.
Now this is a little misleading information to the client.
It is always better to tell the client
the fact that the product number 25 does not exist,
which means the status code could be 404
which is resource not found instead of 200.
So this kind of specific information
where you want to state the status of the request correctly
that's when you use ResponseEntity.
Further do this, now we are going to couple it
with request param annotation which is going to help us
pass parameters and extract them in the controller.
We have already used @Request param for an MVC controller.
Nothing changes, everything is still the same there.
So let's go back to the IDE
and write another method here now
which defines a get mapping like this.
I'm going to keep the URL same.
I'm just going to copy that from line number 22
and paste it on line 32.
And we will follow this with a method
which is this time going to have
a return type of ResponseEntity
and we're going to say getProductsByRequestParam().
Now this is just a name that I have provided
so that you understand that we're writing a method
which is going to accept a request parameter
as simple as that.
Now in order to access the request parameter
we already know what to do.
We have to annotate this with @RequestParam
and let's say the name of that RequestParam is
going to be name and let's map it to a string variable.
After that, let's just follow the same thing.
Let's have a list of products which we will retrieve
from the product repository but this time
since we have the RequestParam as name
we are going to have a custom method called
and pass in that parameter to retrieve the products.
And now, after this we say return new ResponseEntity()
and this time we pass in two things,
the data and the HttpStatus which is this dot OK.
So what we did is we have taken into consideration
both the data that we want to return
in the response of the body and the state,
so if everything goes OK yes,
we have an OK state getting back to the client.